# Matrix Factorization Based Recommenders
    

You've built an item-item recommendation engine, and now you will build a matrix-factorization based recommendation engine. You'll be starting from existing code, and along the way you'll also get practice doing a refactor. This recommendation engine will also be a class, and it will have the same API to the item-item recommender you built.  This way you can use/call almost interchangeably from other code.

Start by reviewing and running the prototype for the matrix factorization model in funk_svd_prototype.py

1.  Looking at the output, you may notice that the predicted ratings are mostly between 2 and 4, whereas there were many predicted ratings greater than 4.5 from the item-item predictor.  What do you think is the reason for this? Briefly explain your reasoning in explanations.txt

2.  Convert the functionality in funk_svd_prototype.py to a MatrixFactorizationRecommender class as you did with the item-item recommender. Use the structure in `code/SVD.py` as a guideline for organizing your class. When your new class is complete, it should produce the same _type of_ output for pred_one_user as the prototype did--the values of the solution will differ. Is the code for any of your methods identical? Could you eliminate this duplication by subclassing your class from this morning?

3.  To choose the best model, or even to tune a single model, you will need out-of-sample validation scores. The easiest approach is to create a separate function (not part of a class) for validation.  The arguments to the validation funciton will be:

        * recommendation object (an instance of one of the recommendation engine classes you've built)
        * fraction of users to include in out of sample validation
        * fraction of items to include in out of sample validation
        * ratings matrix the data.
        * scoring function (you will write one of these)

    Though there are a variety of ways to create out-of-sample validation, start with something easy to implement.  Specifically, choose the top left corner of the ratings matrix as out of sample data.  

    For example, if we have u users and i items, and we choose 30% of users and 30% of items to be out of sample, then this function will create a validation ratings matrix that corresponds to `ratings_mat[:(.3*u),:(.3*i)]`.  You will also need to remove these items from the training matrix.  Since the training matrix is stored as a sparse matrix, you can remove them by setting them equal to 0.  But you don't want to change the original ratings matrix.  You may want to access the original value of that later.  So create a training matrix that is equal to the ratings matrix, and then set these values to 0 in the ratings matrix.

    Once you have a training and validation matrix, apply your recommendation function to the training data, predict all ratings, get the subset of predictions that correspond to validation, and score the validation predictions.

    For now, use mean-squared-error as your scoring function.  Computing mean-squared error is tricky since we used a sparse array. This function handles it reasonably:

        def mse_sparse_with_dense(sparse_mat, dense_mat):
        """
        Computes mean-squared-error between a sparse and a dense matrix.  Does not include the 0's from
        the sparse matrix in computation (treats them as missing)
        """
            #get mask of non-zero, mean-square of those, divide by count of those
            nonzero_idx = sparse_mat.nonzero()
            mse = (np.array(sparse_mat[nonzero_idx] - dense_mat[nonzero_idx])**2).mean()
            return mse

4. This validation strategy disadvantages matrix factorization methods in comparison to item-item recommenders.  Explain why this might be in explanation.txt

5. Play with your recommenders.  Change the parameters (such as how many latent factors are included in the matrix factorization model) and see if you can improve the performance on out-of-sample data.

6. `data/u.item` has the titles of the movies corresponding to the ids you've been working with. Map the titles to some of your recommendations and see if they make sense to you.
